README.md, before:

# micro-aes

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/SmarterUM/micro-aes.svg)](https://github.com/SmarterUM/micro-aes/releases/tag/v1.0.0)
![C](https://img.shields.io/badge/langauge-C-blue.svg)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SmarterUM/micro-aes.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/SmarterUM/micro-aes)
[![MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/SmarterUM/micro-aes/blob/master/LICENSE)

A permissively licensed AES implementation optimised for running on micro-controllers.

This library has developed been developed and open sourced by [AndrewCarterUK ![(Twitter)](http://i.imgur.com/wWzX9uB.png)](https://twitter.com/AndrewCarterUK) from [Smart Carbon Control](http://www.smartcarboncontrol.com/). We are always on the lookout for programming talent, so please [message me](https://twitter.com/AndrewCarterUK) if you are interested in this sort of work.

## License

Like all technology firms, here at [Smart Carbon Control](http://www.smartcarboncontrol.com/) we rely heavily on open source software. In turn, we like to contribute back to the open source community when we can. This library is provided free of charge, under the terms of the [MIT license](https://github.com/SmarterUM/micro-aes/blob/master/LICENSE).

Although there is no obligation to do so, we would really appreciate it if you could [get in touch](https://twitter.com/AndrewCarterUK) and let us know how you are using our software.

## Features

- Does not use dynamic memory allocation
- Uses timing-safe algorithms in place of lookup tables (where possible) to reduce code size
- API designed for use in a low memory environment (cipher text overwrites plain text on encryption)

## API

```C
// AES-256
void aes_256_init    (aes_256_context_t *context, uint8_t key[32]);
void aes_256_encrypt (aes_256_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);
void aes_256_decrypt (aes_256_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);

// AES-192
void aes_192_init    (aes_192_context_t *context, uint8_t key[24]);
void aes_192_encrypt (aes_192_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);
void aes_192_decrypt (aes_192_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);

// AES-128
void aes_128_init    (aes_128_context_t *context, uint8_t key[16]);
void aes_128_encrypt (aes_128_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);
void aes_128_decrypt (aes_128_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);
```

Commit message:

Added documentation regarding modes of operation

README.md, after:

# micro-aes

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/SmarterUM/micro-aes.svg)](https://github.com/SmarterUM/micro-aes/releases/tag/v1.0.0)
![C](https://img.shields.io/badge/langauge-C-blue.svg)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SmarterUM/micro-aes.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/SmarterUM/micro-aes)
[![MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/SmarterUM/micro-aes/blob/master/LICENSE)

A permissively licensed AES implementation optimised for running on micro-controllers.

This library has developed been developed and open sourced by [AndrewCarterUK ![(Twitter)](http://i.imgur.com/wWzX9uB.png)](https://twitter.com/AndrewCarterUK) from [Smart Carbon Control](http://www.smartcarboncontrol.com/). We are always on the lookout for programming talent, so please [message me](https://twitter.com/AndrewCarterUK) if you are interested in this sort of work.

## License

Like all technology firms, here at [Smart Carbon Control](http://www.smartcarboncontrol.com/) we rely heavily on open source software. In turn, we like to contribute back to the open source community when we can. This library is provided free of charge, under the terms of the [MIT license](https://github.com/SmarterUM/micro-aes/blob/master/LICENSE).

Although there is no obligation to do so, we would really appreciate it if you could [get in touch](https://twitter.com/AndrewCarterUK) and let us know how you are using our software.

## Features

- Does not use dynamic memory allocation
- Uses timing-safe algorithms in place of lookup tables (where possible) to reduce code size
- API designed for use in a low memory environment (cipher text overwrites plain text on encryption)

## Important Note

This library provides the basic AES operations for encrypting and decrypting data. There are different ways to apply a block cipher (called the modes of operation), but this library does not deal with them.

**It is very important to understand these modes of operation if you intend to use AES encryption (or any block cipher)**.

The two most simplest modes are [ECB (not very secure)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_cipher_mode_of_operation#ECB) and [CBC (much more secure)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_cipher_mode_of_operation#CBC).

## API

```C
// AES-256
void aes_256_init    (aes_256_context_t *context, uint8_t key[32]);
void aes_256_encrypt (aes_256_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);
void aes_256_decrypt (aes_256_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);

// AES-192
void aes_192_init    (aes_192_context_t *context, uint8_t key[24]);
void aes_192_encrypt (aes_192_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);
void aes_192_decrypt (aes_192_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);

// AES-128
void aes_128_init    (aes_128_context_t *context, uint8_t key[16]);
void aes_128_encrypt (aes_128_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);
void aes_128_decrypt (aes_128_context_t *context, uint8_t block[16]);
```
